fix: update building documenso article description (#369)
documenso/documenso: apps/marketing/content/blog/building-documenso-pt1.mdx

---
title: 'Building Documenso — Part 1: Certificates'

> description: This is the first installment of the new Building Documenso series, where I describe the challenges and design choices that we make while building the world’s most open signing platform.

Reviewer: > This is the first installment of the new Building Documenso series

I suggest to use "part" instead of "Installment"

authorName: 'Timur Ercan'
authorImage: '/blog/blog-author-timur.jpeg'
authorRole: 'Co-Founder'
date: 2023-06-23
tags:
  - Open Source
  - Document Signature
  - Certificates
  - Signing
---

<figure>
  <MdxNextImage
    src="/blog/blog-banner-building-documenso.webp"
    width="1200"
    height="675"
    alt="Building Documenso blog banner"
  />

  <figcaption className="text-center">
    What actually is a signature?
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> Disclaimer: I’m not a lawyer and this isn’t legal advice. We plan to publish a much more specific framework on the topic of signature validity.

> This is the first installment of the new Building Documenso series, where I describe the challenges and design choices that we make while building the world’s most open signing platform.

Reviewer: Same here. Suggesting to use `Part` instead of `Installment`

Author: agreed

  <figcaption className="text-center">The famous green checkmark: Signed by hosted Documenso</figcaption>
</figure>

There weren’t any deeper reasons we choose WiseKey, other than they offered what we needed and there wasn’t any reason to look much further. While I didn’t map the entire certificate market offering (yet), I’m pretty sure something similar could be found elsewhere. While we opted for option 3, choosing option 2 might be perfectly reasonable considering your use case.⁶

> While this is our setup, for now, we have a bigger plan for this topic. While globally trusted SSL Certificates have been available for free, courtesy of Let’s Encrypt, for a while now, there is no such thing as document signing. And there should be. Not having free and trusted infrastructure for signing is blocking a completely new generation of signing products from being created. This is why we’ll start working on option 4 when the time is right.

Do you have questions or thoughts about this? As always, let me know in the comments, on <a href="http://twitter.com/eltimuro" target="_blank">twitter.com/eltimuro</a>
or directly: <a href="https://documen.so/timur" target="_blank">documen.so/timur</a>

> Join the self-hoster community here: <a href="https://documenso.slack.com/" target="_blank">https://documenso.slack.com/</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Join the self-hoster community here: <a href="https://documen.so/discord" target="_blank">https://documen.so/discord</a>
```

Reviewer 2: I guess we using discord now? 😶

Reviewer 3: I hope so

\[3\] Adobe, like the EU, has a list of organizations they trust. The Adobe green checkmark is powered by the Adobe trust list, if you want to be trusted by EU standards here: <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/DSS/webapp-demo/validation" target="_blank">https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/DSS/webapp-demo/validation</a>, you need to be on the EU trust list. Getting on each list is possible, though the latter is much more work.

\[4\] Technically, they sign your certificate creation request (created by you), containing your info with their certificate (which is trusted), making your certificate trusted. This way, everything you sign with your certificate is seen as trusted. They created their certificate just like you, the difference is they are on the lists, mentioned in \[3\]

\[5\] Why does Adobe get to say, what is trusted? They simply happen to have the most used pdf viewer. And since everyone checks there, whom they consider trusted carries weight. If it should be like this, is a different matter.

> \[6\] Self-Signed signatures, even purely visual signatures, are fully legally binding. Why you use changes mainly your confidence in the signature and the burden of proof. Also, some industries require a certain level of signatures e.g. retail loans (QES/ eIDAS Level 3 in the EU).

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit curious about why we are using escape chars here, is it because of rendering issues?

Author: yes. these are just meant to be DIY footnotes: 
![image](https://github.com/documenso/documenso/assets/1309312/c290b88e-cfe9-44f6-ba46-142e6805d25e)
